# layers and layers

walk through going to github or looking at files in *excruciating* detail. 

Lessons: 
* there are different levels of abstraction. 
	* One needs to be able to move between them, especially when things go wrong or when programming.
	* One needs to know when to focus on one level and ignore the others.
* There are layers of software and hardware
	* No need to deal with higher levels, just use the command line (why?)

# OS

Operating system controls computer resources: hardware, software, file system, Input/output

## hardware control

* graphic I/O
* keyboard/mouse
* printers
* communications (ethernet and wifi)

Show processes with *ps -ef*

## Graphical Interface control

* OS monitors mouse, keyboard, etc. 
* Responds to changes: Execute a program, re-draw the screen

Why not just execute programs without the GUI?

## executing programs

Describe steps in executing a program

* find the program file
* do what the program says to do

Questions you should ask: 

* how does OS know where programs are?
* how does OS know what kind of file a file is?

## File system

* hierarchical: directories/folders and files (directories ARE files!)
* some directories have special names

(more below in *Terminal* section)

# Terminal
Describe operating system.

*terminal* program is a way to speak directly to the OS

# Bash Stuff #

What is a shell?

## commands

* navigate directories (cd, ., .., ~, pwd)

Compare directory information in *terminal* versus *finder*

* create directory (mkdir)
* create files (touch, cp, mv )
* rmdir, rm

# HW0

go through it in class

## ==> **Prepare** for class by **Tuesday 8/28 (class 3)**

0. Work through unix tutorial: http://www.ee.surrey.ac.uk/Teaching/Unix/ except for Chapters 7 and 8 

1. Work through https://guides.github.com, GitHub Flow, Hello World, and Forking Projects

2. Work through the github markdown tutorial: https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/ 


# Git stuff

(if time permits)

Review of version control
* history of changes
* stage/commit

local/remote repos

private/public repos (collaborators)

Branches: HEAD, master, others